Now, let's look again at the imp. versus declarative approach.
But let's dig deeper so that we really understand what's going on or or why compose is really great
at what he does.
So in imperative approach of Android development, so you would have Android layout, so you have a
lot of views that you put together to create a user interface, which means that you have two sections.
Going first is going to be the layout file, which is usually an XML, and then you would have an activity,
right?
So in order for you to be able to traverse or to be able to go and get, for instance, if you or or
in this case, a widget could be a button, a text or an image or so forth in your coding activity would
have to use functions such as find view by and.
Right.
So what are you doing when you say fine?
If you buy ID's that you traversing this tree that is created containing all of these widgets in the
background, which, as you imagine, takes time and it's expensive in the sense that it takes a lot
of memory, a lot of computing power.
So one of things that also you have to remember is that in order for you to change, let's say a text
view, you would have to use getters and setters.
That means you have to say TextView set text to a string or a button that on click and so forth.
Right.
So you actually have to manually change the state of the views.
First of all, you have to traverse the widget tree, which is very expensive.
That takes a lot of computing power.
And also it increase errors because it may happen that the view you're trying to find has been long
removed by another function by another class.
So now you are looking for something that doesn't exist, or if you are trying to update something that
doesn't exist, then you end up with a lot of errors and your app may crash.
And also, as I said, you are directly changing the state of the widget manually.
When you say text view that set text, you are directly going and changing that state of that text field,
which is not a great thing because it pollutes your whole state management four app and you wind up
with a lot of issues and you potentially may wind up with a lot of problems.
So this is the imperative approach.
And the fourth pitfall is that you may end up with also update conflicts.
So aptly, conflicts may happen for the same reason I said you may try to update something that was
already updated.
And now the state is all messed up because there are there isn't really the one source of truth when
it comes to state.
All of these are some of the pitfalls we get from the imperative approach of Android development.
Now, when we go to the declarative approach in this case, Jet.com jetpack compose, things change
dramatically.
The same idea we have, right?
So we create views.
In this case, we create declarative UI, right?
Which means now the UI is are built and updated differently than before.
What happened now is that when something changes inside of our widget of tree, in this case, all of
these composable functions or widgets inside of your app, what happens is the system goes out and updates
the screen, but most importantly, goes and only updates what needs to update the widget or the function
that needs to be updated.
Only this is what we call recomposition.
The beauty here is that we no longer have to manually update each widget, so you'll remember the text
TextView that set.
We no longer have to do that because we're declaring what we want to see, and we're letting the data
dictate whether that view needs to update or not.
And also, most importantly, we no longer rely on XML to create user interfaces.
Now, everything is done in one way using one language in this case.
Another main concept in the declarative approach is that data is passed down.
What that means?
Well, in other words, we passed data into our main composable and then the other inner composable
functions in this case in return will react to it, which means they will update and describe the user
interface as they see fit.
So now we have smaller, composable functions that are waiting or receiving data and be reactive as
they get that data.
That's really, really powerful.
And on the other hand, on the other side, too, what happens is that events go up.
What that means is that an event is triggered.
For instance, if a user interacts with, for instance, parts of a story widget, as you see in this
diagram here, what happens is that the app logic will know that there is an event that is happening
here and it will know whether it is a new data that's been.
That been that's been sent out that way, other parts of the Outis are, like other composable, will
also be notified that something has changed.
We need to do something if necessary.
Again, that recomposition is happening here.
Remember, if necessary, that is the most beautiful thing about compose is that it does not go around
and compose or in recompose.
I should say all of the functions.
No, it just goes and picks the one that needs updating.
Now we got rid of all of the clunk.
We got rid of all the coupled situation that we had between layout, example and activity because no
longer have to go and set my data or the state manually using getters and setters and so forth.
Now we were letting the data itself mandate everything, the data and events.
So this is the declarative UI model.
Just because we need to have some sort of definition recomposition is the process of calling your composable
function again when inputs update is the process of calling your composable function again, when inputs
change in these goes back or takes back to what we've been working on, which is that circle that we
tapped.
What happens?
The recomposition happens because every time we change this state over a counter, the compose compiler
will know that, OK, just that text will have to recompose because the data has changed.
Not anything else, just that text.
All right, so let's go back to our code.
Now that we have, we understand at least the advantages that we have when using compose versus the
old way, quote unquote of doing development.
Now there are a lot of things that I went through here, but I hope I broke them down in such a way.
They are easy to understand and you are welcome to watch this video that way you have certain concepts
that are really, really important for you to really understand.
Compose, jetpack compose.
So if things are not really making a lot of sense, don't worry just to watch a video.
And remember, we're still in the beginning stages of this course, so there's a lot to learn.
And this concepts or these concepts, they should say they will come up over and over.
And by the end of this course, I promise you, you will.
You will be good.
You will understand all of these concepts because you will have done a lot of work yourself to really
understand how all of this work.
But I want you to get this concept.
You change the way you think about development.
OK, so let's go back to our code.